---
title: 'RAD2 Minecraft Modpack'
date: 2023-23-21
author: 'fergenbergel'
creator: 'dreams01'
type: 'server'
subtype: 'gaming'
status: 'Active'
publicity: 'Public'
image_alt: 'RAD 2 art'
image: '../../images/RAD2.png'
address: 'RAD2.aberrantwinds.xyz'
modsDownload: 'https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/modpacks/roguelike-adventures-and-dungeons-2'
seasonal: 'false'
tags:
 - Server
---

From the offical curseforge page:

"Roguelike Adventures and Dungeons 2 is an official spiritual successor of well-known Roguelike Adventures and Dungeons modpack inspired by many RPG, roguelike, roguelite and dungeon-delving games and modpacks. It's an exploration based modpack with over 250 mods, 100+ new biomes, 12+ dimensions and dozens of new dungeons to delve and loot, ground or flying structures to find and bosses to fight. Level up skills; find new better equipment, relics or trinkets; build and decorate your base and go exploring to find a lot of new interesting! Everyone can find something for themselves in this modpack.
Progressive difficulty and scaling mobs with different attributes forces you to always be in shape in terms of equipment and skill. There are also a lot of option to gain more health to compensate.

Modpack encourages many different playstyles like

✔️ questing - over 1500 quests with useful rewards and shop;

✔️ exploration - 100+ biomes, dozens of structures, dungeons and dimensions;

✔️ nomadism - pocket dimensions, backpacks, bags, portable homes;

✔️ base building - tons of new construction blocks and decorations;

✔️ farming - new crops, trees and productive bees;

✔️ cooking - dozens of new food and drinks with powerful bonuses;

✔️ basic technology contraptions - basic processing and automation;

✔️ and a little bit of magic!

... but the main concept and focus is exploration. This was not designed as kitchen-sink modpack."

We do not have a protection system built into this modpack, I expect people not to grief or they will be banned, but just to be safe build your houses far from spawn.

## Rules
The rules are the same as every other Aberrant Winds server. Check the rules tab at the top to read them.

## Additional Links
 - [Modpack Download][2]
 - [Prism Launcher][3]

[2]: <https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/modpacks/roguelike-adventures-and-dungeons-2> "The RAD2 Pack Download"
[3]: <https://prismlauncher.org/> "Prism Launcher for Minecraft" 